
We also discussed defense in depth (an information security strategy integrating people, technology, and operations capabilities to establish variable barriers across multiple layers and missions of the organization) and how it applies to the types of access control (physical, logical/technical, and administrative) that every information security professional should be familiar with. At the same time, we stressed the importance of the Principle of Least Privilege (users should only have the minimum access necessary to accomplish their job).  

We then discussed Privileged Access Management and how it relates to risk and the CIA Triad: it reduces risk by allowing admin privileges to be used only when needed, provides confidentiality by limiting the need for administrative access that is used during routine business, ensures integrity by only allowing authorized administrative access during approved activities, and confirms availability by providing administrative access when needed. We also differentiated between a Regular User Account and a Privileged User Account.

We further discussed segregation of duties, two-person integrity, and how users are provisioned, from being hired to being terminated. We then explored physical and logical access controls and how they are combined to strengthen the overall security of an organization. Physical access controls include security guards, fences, motion detectors, locked doors/gates, sealed windows, lights, cable protection, laptop locks, badges, swipe cards, guard dogs, cameras, mantraps/turnstiles and alarms. Logical access controls (also called technical controls) can be configuration settings or parameters stored as data, managed through a software graphical user interface (GUI), or they can be hardware settings done with switches, jumper plugs or other means.  

We concluded the chapter discussing three logical access controls: DAC, MAC, and RBAC. Discretionary access control (DAC) is a specific type of access control policy that is enforced over all subjects and objects in an information system. A mandatory access control (MAC) policy is one that is uniformly enforced across all subjects and objects within the boundary of an information system. Role-based access control (RBAC), as the name suggests, sets up user permissions based on roles.
