
- Confidentiality is about **allowing authorized access** to information while protecting it from improper disclosure.
- Personally identifiable information, protected health information, and classified/sensitive information are examples of confidential information.
- Sensitivity is a measure of the importance assigned to information by its owner and denotes that it needs protection.
- Disclosure of sensitive information could harm an organization or an individual, especially external stakeholders.

## 1.1.2 Integrity

- Integrity is the property of information that ensures its **completeness**, **accuracy**, **internal consistency, and usefulnes**s for a stated purpose.
- Integrity applies to information, data, systems or processes for business operations, organizations, and people and their actions.
- Data integrity ensures that data is not modified or altered in any unauthorized manner, and it covers data in storage, during processing, and while in transit.
- **System integrit**y refers to using a known **good configuration** and expected **operational functionality** as the system processes.
- The **need to safeguard** information and system integrity may be dictated by **laws and regulations** or the needs of the organization to access and use reliable, accurate information.

## 1.1.3 Availability

- Availability means that systems and data are **accessible at the time** users need them.
- The core concept of availability is that data is **accessible to authorized users** when and where it is needed and in the **form and format** required.
- Critical systems and data must have appropriate levels of availability, and the security professional must consult with the involved business to identify them.
- Availability is often associated with the term **criticality**, which represents the importance an organization gives to data or an information system in performing its operations or achieving its mission.

## 1.1.4  Authentication 

- It is used and necessary to validate that they are **rightful owner** for that identity.
- This process of proving user's identification is known as authentication and the common authentication methods are broken in to three divisions:
  - **Something You Know** - Passwords or Passphrases.
  - **Something You Have** - Tokens, smart cards, memory cards
  - **Something You  are** - Bio metrics, measurable characteristic

### There are two types of authentication:

- SFA (Single Factor Authentication) : Which requires the user to demonstrate any one of the authentication methods listed.
- MFA (Multi Factor Authentication): Which requires the user to demonstrate two or more of the authentication methods listed.
- Knowledge based or Something You Know methods of authentication are vulnerable to various attacks including social engineering, brute-force etc
- To ensure better security, a second or third method of authentication should be demonstrated to ensure the rightful owner.

## 1.1.5 Non-repudiation 

- It  is a legal term and is defined as the **protection against an individual falsely denying** performed actions.
- It provides the capability to determine whether a **task has been performed by an individual**, such as creating information, performing transactions etc.

## 1.1.6 Privacy

- It is the right of an **individual to control** the distribution of  **information about themselves.**
- Global privacy is an especially crucial issue when considering requirements regarding the collection and security of personal information.
- Global privacy is an especially crucial issue when considering requirements regarding the collection and security of personal information and many more.
- These laws, including national- and state-level laws, dictate that any entity anywhere in the world handling the private data of people in a particular legal jurisdiction must abide by its privacy requirements.
- An example of a law with multinational implications is the European **Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)** applies to all organizations, foreign or domestic, doing business in the EU or any persons in the EU.
