
In this chapter, we covered security principles, starting with concepts of information assurance. We highlighted the CIA triad as the primary components of information assurance. The “C” stands for confidentiality; we must protect the data that needs protection and prevent access to unauthorized individuals. The “I” represents integrity; we must ensure the data has not been altered in an unauthorized manner. The “A” symbolizes availability; we must make sure data is accessible to authorized users when and where it is needed, and in the form and format that is required. We also discussed the importance of privacy, authentication, non-repudiation and authorization. 

You explored the safeguards and countermeasures prescribed for an information system to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the system and its information. By applying risk management, we were able to assess and prioritize the risks (asset vulnerabilities that can be exploited by threats) to an organization. An organization can decide whether to accept the risk (ignoring the risks and continuing risky activities), avoid the risk (ceasing the risky activity to remove the likelihood that an event will occur), mitigate the risk (taking action to prevent or reduce the impact of an event), or transfer the risk (passing risk to a third party). 

You then learned about three types of security controls: physical, technical and administrative. They act as safeguards or countermeasures prescribed for an information system to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the system and its information. The implementation of security controls should reduce risk, hopefully to an acceptable level. Physical controls address process-based security needs using physical hardware devices, such as a badge reader, architectural features of buildings and facilities, and specific security actions taken by people. Technical controls (also called logical controls) are security controls that computer systems and networks directly implement. Administrative controls (also known as managerial controls) are directives, guidelines or advisories aimed at the people within the organization.

You were then introduced to organizational security roles and governance, the policies and procedures that shape organizational management and drive decision-making. As discussed, we typically derive procedures from policies, policies from standards, standards from regulations. Regulations are commonly issued in the form of laws, usually from government (not to be confused with governance) and typically carry financial penalties for noncompliance. Standards are often used by governance teams to provide a framework to introduce policies and procedures in support of regulations. Policies are put in place by organizational governance, such as executive management, to provide guidance in all activities to ensure the organization supports industry standards and regulations. Procedures are the detailed steps to complete a task that will support departmental or organizational policies.

Finally, we covered the ISC2 Code of Ethics, which members of the organization commit to fully support. Bottom line, we must act legally and ethically in the field of cyber security.
