---
date: 2023-10-15
categories: Notes
author: Rahul N.
---

# 5.4 Purpose 

1. **Understanding Expectations:** Awareness training educates employees about the expectations the organization has for them regarding their responsibilities and accountabilities. It teaches them about the policies, procedures, and standards that are in place, and how to comply with them.
2. **Identifying Carelessness or Complacency:** Awareness training helps identify if there are any areas where employees are careless or complacent, which could potentially pose a risk to the organization. By addressing these issues, the training helps reduce risks associated with human error.
3. **Aligning with Organizational Goals:** The training ensures that employees are aware of how their actions and behaviors align with the information security goals of the organization. This understanding helps them see how their daily work contributes to the overall mission and vision of the organization
4. **Creating a Secure Environment:** Through awareness training, employees become more mindful of potential security risks and threats, and how to avoid or mitigate them. This contributes to creating a more secure environment within the organization.
5. **Compliance with Regulations:** Depending on the industry, certain regulations may require regular awareness training for employees. This training ensures that the organization stays compliant and avoids any penalties associated with non-compliance.
6. **Promoting a Culture of Security:** Beyond simply conveying rules and procedures, awareness training helps instill a culture of security within the organization where every employee understands their role in safeguarding the organization's data and systems.

## What Is Security Awareness Training For ?

- **Education:** Security awareness education involves providing employees with an understanding of cybersecurity principles, threats, and best practices. This includes understanding the significance of information security and how their individual actions can impact the organization's security posture.
- **Training:** The training component involves teaching specific skills or actions related to security. This could include how to identify and respond to phishing emails, how to properly manage passwords, or how to securely handle sensitive information. The goal is to build proficiency in these skills to reduce the risk of security incidents.
- **Awareness:** Security awareness involves making employees aware of the various security risks and threats they may encounter in their role, and the importance of their role in mitigating these risks. Awareness activities might include presentations, posters, newsletters, or regular email updates about recent threats or security updates.

1. **Education:**
    - Hosting seminars or workshops on key security topics.
    - Providing eLearning modules on various cybersecurity topics.
    - Offering access to cybersecurity books, articles, and webinars.
2. **Training:**
    - Conducting phishing simulations to help users recognize malicious emails.
    - Running mock scenarios to test employee response to security incidents.
    - Using interactive games or challenges to teach users about security concepts.
3. **Awareness:**
    - Sending regular newsletters or email updates with latest security news and tips.
    - Posting cybersecurity posters or infographics around the office.
    - Encouraging participation in security-related events, like cybersecurity awareness month.

## Phishing 

### Whaling Attacks 

1. **What are Whaling Attacks?** Whaling attacks are a type of phishing attack that specifically targets high-profile employees, such as the CEO or CFO, in order to steal sensitive information from a company. The term whaling is used to depict the size of the targets relative to typical phishing attacks, symbolizing the bigger 'fish' in the company hierarchy.
2. **How Do They Work?** In whaling attacks, cybercriminals impersonate senior executives and send emails to lower-level employees, usually within the finance department, requesting a wire transfer or sensitive data. These emails are often sophisticated, using the executive's style of writing, their email signature, and include relevant details that make the request seem legitimate.
3. **Why are They Dangerous?** Whaling attacks are particularly dangerous because they use the trust and authority of senior executives to deceive employees into taking actions they normally wouldn’t. Additionally, due to the high level of customization in these attacks, they can be harder to detect than regular phishing attempts.
4. **Preventing Whaling Attacks:** Prevention measures include educating all staff, especially senior executives and finance teams, about the risk of whaling attacks; implementing robust processes for financial transactions that require multiple approvals; and using advanced email security solutions that can detect and block such attacks.

## Social Engineering

Social engineering is a strategy used by cyber attackers to manipulate individuals into revealing sensitive information. The aim is to exploit human vulnerabilities to break security protocols. This method plays on human tendencies and is effective because it's easier to exploit a person's natural inclination to trust than it is to discover ways to hack their software. The text mentions several types of social engineering tactics:

1. **Phone Phishing or Vishing:** This involves the use of a fraudulent interactive voice response (IVR) system that mimics the IVR system of a legitimate institution, such as a bank. The victim is usually prompted by a phishing email to call a provided phone number, where they're asked to verify sensitive information like account numbers, access codes, or PINs.
2. **Pretexting:** This involves impersonating an authority figure or trusted individual to obtain access to login information. The attacker may claim to be an IT support worker, an investigator performing a company audit, or even a coworker or a tax authority.
3. **Quid Pro Quo:** In this scenario, the attacker offers a compensation (like a free gift or access to an online service) in exchange for the victim's password or login credentials.
4. **Tailgating:** This tactic involves following an authorized user into a restricted area or system. In a low-tech scenario, this could be a person asking you to hold the door open because they forgot their company RFID card. In a more sophisticated version, someone may ask to borrow your phone or laptop to perform a simple action, during which they install malicious software onto your device.

## Password Protection 

- Password managers are tools that can store multiple passwords securely, relieving the user of the need to remember multiple passwords.
- There's a potential risk of compromising the password manager itself, especially if protected by a weak password or passphrase.
- Cloud storage of passwords, while convenient, can also be a risk if not properly secured.
- Organizations should encourage unique passwords for each system and recommend a reliable password management solution.
- Practices to avoid include:
    - Reusing passwords across multiple systems, especially for both business and personal use.
    - Writing down passwords and leaving them in unsecured areas.
    - Sharing passwords with tech support or co-workers.
